docs/commandloop.rst, before:

The Command Loop
================

The core of any ``cmdsh`` based application is the command loop. You enter the
command loop by::

    import cmdsh
    shell = cmdsh.Shell()
    last_result = shell.loop()

The shell then repeatedly reads a statement, parses the input, executes a command, and
displays any output. This continues until some command requests the loop terminate.


Preloop Hooks
-------------

Before the command loop begins, the shell calls every registered preloop hooks. To
register a preloop hook::

    >>> import cmdsh
    >>> class App(cmdsh.Shell):
    ...     def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
    ...         super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
    ...         self.register_preloop_hook(self.myhookmethod)
    ...
    ...     def myhookmethod(self):
    ...         self.wout("before the loop begins")


Command Loop Details
--------------------

Here's the specific steps that occur each time through the command loop:

#. Output the prompt
#. Read input
#. Parse input into a ``Statement`` object
#. Call ``do_command`` method
#. Call all registered post-execute hooks


Postloop Hooks
--------------

Once the command loop terminates, the shell calls every registered postloop hook. Here's
an example of a postloop hook::

    >>> import cmdsh
    >>> class App(cmdsh.Shell):
    ...     def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
    ...         super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
    ...         self.register_postloop_hook(self.myhookmethod)
    ...
    ...     def myhookmethod(self):
    ...         self.wout("before the loop begins")

Commit message:

Add postparse hooks
move hook validation functions to new utils.py

docs/commandloop.rst, after:

The Command Loop
================

The core of any ``cmdsh`` based application is the command loop. You enter the
command loop by::

    import cmdsh
    shell = cmdsh.Shell()
    last_result = shell.loop()

The shell then repeatedly reads a statement, parses the input, executes a command, and
displays any output. This continues until some command requests the loop terminate.


Preloop Hooks
-------------

Before the command loop begins, the shell calls every registered preloop hooks. To
register a preloop hook::

    >>> import cmdsh
    >>> class App(cmdsh.Shell):
    ...     def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
    ...         super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
    ...         self.register_preloop_hook(self.myhookmethod)
    ...
    ...     def myhookmethod(self):
    ...         self.wout("before the loop begins")


Command Loop Details
--------------------

Here's the specific steps that occur each time through the command loop:

#. Output the prompt
#. Read input
#. Parse input into a ``Statement`` object
#. Call all registered post-parse hooks
#. Call ``do_command`` method
#. Call all registered post-execute hooks


Postparse Hooks
---------------

After the shell has parsed the input into a ``Statement`` object, it calls each registered postparse
hook, passing the statement. The hook method can modify the statement if desired, or return it as
passed. Raising any exception causes the statement to not be executed, and any subsequent post parse
hooks will not be called.


Postloop Hooks
--------------

Once the command loop terminates, the shell calls every registered postloop hook. Here's
an example of a postloop hook::

    >>> import cmdsh
    >>> class App(cmdsh.Shell):
    ...     def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
    ...         super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
    ...         self.register_postloop_hook(self.myhookmethod)
    ...
    ...     def myhookmethod(self):
    ...         self.wout("before the loop begins")
